This is osso-application-installer, version 4
=============================================

[ About versions:

  1.x initial 'prototype'

  2.x working version of 1.x series with app-installer tool

  3.x intermediate version with the UI of 2.x that uses system-wide
      package management tools

  4.x completely new design that uses libapt-pkg and repositories
]

The osso-application-installer is a program to manage user packages in
the OSSO platform.  It uses the system-wide package management tools
(thru libapt-pkg) and presents a 'end user oriented' interface to
them.

The package management tools are powerful enough to manage the whole
system, but osso-application installer is not intended to offer that
power to the user.  If you want it, synaptic is quite easy to compile
and runs reasonable well on the 770...

Osso-application-installer is intended to be fully compatible with
existing and future interfaces for package management.  It should be
possible to, for example, freely alternate between apt-get, synaptic
and osso-application installer and not have anything break.


Documentation
-------------

Technical documentation can be found in the doc/ directory.  It mostly
explains how the apt technology is used in the context of maemo and
how it has been extended.  There are two documents:

- packaging.txt

  For package maintainers; explains things like how to make the
  Application installer not hide your package from the user, how to
  associate an icon with it, etc.

- repository.txt

  For repository maintainers; explains things like how to "certify"
  parts of a repository, etc.


About the implementation
------------------------

If you want to dive into the code, this is your spring board (aka "The
Design Document").  This section gives a high level overview of the
implementation, highlights general principles and then describes how
the code is divided into files.  Further documentation of internal
APIs etc. is contained in the appropriate source code files.


The essential library that provides the actual package management
functionality is libapt-pkg.  It is used by the Application installer
in the same way as apt-get, Synaptic and aptitude use it and its use
integrates the Application installer seamlessly into the system-wide
package management.

The Application installer runs as two processes: The first process
implements the GUI and runs as the user who started the Application
installer.  The second process is started in the background and is the
one that actually links to libapt-pkg and does all the package
management work.  It runs as "root".

The first process is called the "frontend", the second one is called
the "backend".

The frontend starts the backend by executing an appropriate "sudo"
command (in the Scratchbox environment, fakeroot is used instead).
The two processes communicate via named fifos using an ad-hoc, binary,
private protocol.  The frontend also captures stdout and stderr of the
backend and makes it available to the user as the "Log".

No attempt has been made to restrict access to the backend.  Every
program, not just the frontend, can start the backend without needig
to provide any credentials such as the root password.  Since the
backend can be instructed to execute arbitrary code (via the
maintainer scripts of a package), having the Application installer in
your system is like having a globally known password on the root
account.  This is deemed acceptable for the maemo platform since
devices built using that platform are not multi-user devices (yet) and
there is no system administrator.  Privilege separation is used only
to contain damage in the case of accidents, not to defend against
attacks.

The backend is command driven: it reads a request, executes it, ships
back a respose, and then loops to reads the next request.  It
asynchronously sends status upates.  Downloads performed by the
backend are interuptible, but in general commands are not
interruptible.

The frontend is event driven in the usual way.  It will send requests
to the backend and then react to it when the result arrives by
executing a registered callback.  Somewhat unusually, it will just run
one event loop and no recursive ones for modal dialogs or when waiting
for a reponse from the backend.  In effect, the control flow is
implemented in continuation passing style.  (The event loop is the
trampoline that gives us the desired tail-call elimination for this.)

The motivation for using continuation passing style was to avoid
spontanous reentry of event callbacks (which are not supported by Gtk+
and are tricky in general) but still have a fully concurrent 'UI
experience'.  Thus most of the code does not need to be reentrant,
which makes it easier to reason about its robustness.

Writing in continuation passing style in C is a bit cumbersome, but
worth it, in my opinion.

The backend and most of the frontend is written in C++, but a small
part of the GUI code is plain C to enable easier transportation into
external libraries or reuse.  Despite the use of C++, this is not a
object oriented program.  No inheritance, run-time types, exceptions
or templates are used.


The backend is contained in the single file "apt-worker.cc".

The protocol that is used between the frontend and the backend is
defined in "apt-worker-proto.h".  Support for encoding and decoding it
'for the wire' is contained in "apt-worker-proto.cc".  These two files
are used by both the frontend and the backend, but no other source
files are shared.

The frontend uses global variables without prejudice and in a
disciplined way.  Being a program (and not a library), the frontend
naturally has a well defined global state and the knowledge about this
is exploited to simplify the internal APIs.  For example, the function
'do_current_operation' takes no parameters and will start the
installation/upgrading/removal process of the currently highlighted
package, depending on the currently active view.  However, the global
package list and the global section list clearly go to far and need to
be 'unglobalized'.

The frontend implementation is divided into a number of files
according to easily recognizable UI features.  Internal APIs are
documented in the header files.

- main.h, main.cc

  Contains the main logic, such as all the views and code for
  installing/upgrading/removing packages and installing from a file.
  The header file defines the main data structure used by the
  frontend: package_info.

- menu.h, menu.cc

  The main menu and the context menu for package lists.

- details.h, details.cc

  The "Details" dialog.

- settings.h, settings.cc

  The "Settings" dialog and loading saving of settings and persistent
  state.

- search.h, search.cc

  The "Search" dialog.  The actual searching is implemented in main.cc.

- repo.h, repo.cc

  The "Catalogue" dialog.

- log.h, log.cc

  The "Log" dialog.

- instr.h, instr.cc

  For handling the MIME type application/x-install-instructions.

- util.h, util.cc

  A host of general UI and non-UI related utilities such as
  confirmation dialogs, scrollable text views, progress indicators,
  etc.

  These files also contain the implementation of the package list and
  section list functionality.

- hildonbreadcrumbtrail.h, hildonbreadcrumbtrail.c

  A throw-away implementation of the breadcrumb trail 'widget'.  These
  files might turn one-day into a real, reuseable widget, but right
  now they only implement the bare necessities.

- apt-worker-client.h, apt-worker-client.cc

  Support for starting the backend and communicating with it.


BUGS
----

- https needs to be trusted, even without key.
- avoid cache refresh when provable unnecessary,
  add "version" to .install for that

- use doubles for sizes, maybe
- "No catalogue in use."
