                     Numerical Python

    Versions after 20.0 require Python 2.0 or later. To take advantage of 
    the "rich comparisons" (i.e., to be able to compare arrays and get
    back a boolean result) you need Python 2.1.

Web site: http://numpy.sourceforge.net
Project page: http://sourceforge.net/projects/numpy
Discussion group: numpy-discussion@lists.sourceforge.net

===> Silicon Graphics bug:
    Due to a bug in the SGI compiler's handling of complex
    variables, you must build your *python* without optimization
    on a certain file. Consult the Python installation instructions
    for the details.

INSTALLING BINARY DISTRIBUTIONS ON WINDOWS

    Get the .exe installers and simply run them. Python must already be
    installed.

BUILDING AND INSTALLING NUMERIC PTYHON FROM SOURCE

    See the file INSTALL for installation instructions.

OPTIONAL PACKAGES

    Subdirectory Packages contains optional packages. By default, setup.py
    installs all of them; if you do not want all of them, simply remove the
    corresponding lines from setup.py.

    Each package has its own setup.py file for separate installation.

    Package Properties is required for package kinds and package MA.

CVS Repository, Bug Tracking, Documentation, Patches, Mailing Lists

   Access to the source via CVS, a bug tracking facility, a patch submission
   facility, and the numpy-discussion mailing list are all on the
   Numerical Python Project page:  http://sourceforge.net/projects/numpy

   The Numerical Python Web Site is http://numpy.sourceforge.net. It contains
   links to the project page and the documentation. It also has a few links
   to related sites.

History

This software was originally written by Jim Hugunin when he was at MIT, later
at CNRI.

Then Paul Dubois of LLNL became the "keeper". LLNL has released any
contributions to it by LLNL personnel for free redistribution.  However, many
people have contributed to Numpy.  It is a classic open source effort that
nobody "owns".  So, Numerical Python is placed in the SourceForge under the
Python license. The LLNL license is in Legal.htm.

 -- Paul F. Dubois, Jan. 13, 2000.
